#  Restaurant Revenue prediction using Machine learning

This project focuses on predicting restaurant revenue using a machine learning model, specifically a pre-trained Random Forest model. Users provide input features including location, cuisine type, rating, seating capacity, social media followers, chef experience in years, number of reviews, average review length, ambience score, service quality score, parking availability, weekend and weekday reservations, marketing budget in rupees, and average meal price in rupees. These inputs are preprocessed and transformed, with categorical variables encoded and log transformations applied where necessary. The app, built with Streamlit, features a user-friendly interface with custom styling, allowing users to easily input data and receive a revenue prediction. The model's predictions are based on these detailed inputs, providing an estimated revenue figure that can help restaurant owners make informed business decisions. The project demonstrates effective data preprocessing, feature engineering, and model deployment in a visually appealing web application.

## Data Set

The below dataset from kaggle is used to train  model which contains nearly 8000+ rows

The dataset link is are as follows :-
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/anthonytherrien/restaurant-revenue-prediction-dataset

The entire work of model training is depcited in restaurant_revenue_prediction.ipynb.ipynb file. kindly refer it after installing and loading dataset from the above link.

## Methodology

The project follows the below structured methodology ranging from data preprocessing pipeline to model training, evaluation and deployment :-

1. **Data Collection**:
2. **Data Preprocessing**: 
3. **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)**:
    after Data preprocessing the next step is Exploratory  data analysis using different plotting libraries like matplotlib,pandas,seaborn and plotly.following plots were plotted in this step:-
    1) Pie charts
    2) Histograms
    3) Hexbin plots
    4) count plots
    5) Corelation matrix
    6) Regression plots
    7) scatter plots
    8) cross validation plot
    9) Bar plots etc
    (refer output folder for this images and graph observation)

4. **Model Training and evaluation**: 
     The four models are trained namely random forest , linear regression , XGBoost and decison trees , out of whihc random forest proven to be the most accurate on which final model is built.

5. **Inference**: 
      Deployed the model with the help of streamlit web application to predict or estimate the revenue generated by restuarant per month.

This project aLsao include the stock price prediction of indian hotel company (INDHOTEL.NS) stocks in indian_hotel_stock_analysis.ipynb file.

INDHOTEL.NS.csv contains data of stocks of indian hotels company from 1jan 2012 to present collected from yahoo finance.

## Libraries Used

1. **joblib**: To dowload and laod the model
2. **plotly**: For plotting zooming and 3d visualizations
3. **Matplotlib**: For plotting and visualizing the detection results.
4. **Pandas**: For image manipulation.
5. **NumPy**: For efficient numerical operations.
6. **Streamlit** : for building web app gui.

## How to Use

1. **Clone the Repository**: 
    ```sh
    git clone url_to_this_repository
    ```

2. **Install Dependencies**: 
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
3. **Install model from provided drive link**:
    - link : https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n0KeiJyfaoawFhewD3ze7rL9s3EgoxYk/view?usp=sharinghttps://drive.google.com/file/d/1n0KeiJyfaoawFhewD3ze7rL9s3EgoxYk/view?usp=sharing
    
    - install model (rf_model.pkl) from the link and keep it in same directory as main.py

3. **Run the Model**: 
    ```python
    python main.py
    ```

4. **View Results**: The script will allow you to estimate the revenue generated by the restaurant.

- Demo :

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3895677b-656e-44de-adcf-e9442bbb5426




